src/main/asciidoc/new-features.adoc, before:

[[new-features]]
== New & Noteworthy

[[new-features.2-0-0]]
=== What's new in Spring Vault 2.0

* Authentication steps DSL to <<vault.authentication.steps,compose authentication flows>>.
* <<vault.core.reactive.template,Reactive Vault client>> via `ReactiveVaultOperations`.
* <<vault.repositories,Vault repository support>> based on Spring Data KeyValue.
* Transit batch encrypt and decrypt support.
* Policy management for policies stored as JSON.
* Support CSR signing, certificate revocation and CRL retrieval.
* <<vault.authentication.kubernetes,Kubernetes authentication>>.
* RoleId/SecretId unwrapping for <<vault.authentication.approle,AppRole authentication>>.
* <<vault.misc.spring-security,Spring Security integration>> with transit backend-based `BytesKeyGenerator` and `BytesEncryptor`.

[[new-features.1-1-0]]
=== What's new in Spring Vault 1.1.0

* <<vault.authentication.awsiam,AWS IAM authentication>>.
* Configuration of encryption/decryption versions for transit keys.
* Pull mode for <<vault.authentication.approle,AppRole authentication>>.
* Transit batch encrypt and decrypt support.
* TTL-based generic secret rotation.

[[new-features.1-0-0]]
=== What's new in Spring Vault 1.0

* Initial Vault support.

Commit message:

Add support for GCP authentication.
We now provide GCP IAM and GCP GCE authentication support for service accounts based on JSON Web Token.
GCP IAM requires Google Cloud Java SDK for credential and IAM interaction.

  GcpIamAuthenticationOptions options = GcpIamAuthenticationOptions.builder()
      .role(…).credential(GoogleCredentials.getApplicationDefault()).build();

  GcpIamAuthentication authentication = new GcpIamAuthentication(options, restOperations());

Closes gh-126.

src/main/asciidoc/new-features.adoc, after:

[[new-features]]
== New & Noteworthy

[[new-features.2-1-0]]
=== What's new in Spring Vault 2.1
* <<vault.authentication.gcpgce,GCP Compute>> and <<vault.authentication.gcpiam,GCP IAM>> authentication.

[[new-features.2-0-0]]
=== What's new in Spring Vault 2.0

* Authentication steps DSL to <<vault.authentication.steps,compose authentication flows>>.
* <<vault.core.reactive.template,Reactive Vault client>> via `ReactiveVaultOperations`.
* <<vault.repositories,Vault repository support>> based on Spring Data KeyValue.
* Transit batch encrypt and decrypt support.
* Policy management for policies stored as JSON.
* Support CSR signing, certificate revocation and CRL retrieval.
* <<vault.authentication.kubernetes,Kubernetes authentication>>.
* RoleId/SecretId unwrapping for <<vault.authentication.approle,AppRole authentication>>.
* <<vault.misc.spring-security,Spring Security integration>> with transit backend-based `BytesKeyGenerator` and `BytesEncryptor`.

[[new-features.1-1-0]]
=== What's new in Spring Vault 1.1.0

* <<vault.authentication.awsiam,AWS IAM authentication>>.
* Configuration of encryption/decryption versions for transit keys.
* Pull mode for <<vault.authentication.approle,AppRole authentication>>.
* Transit batch encrypt and decrypt support.
* TTL-based generic secret rotation.

[[new-features.1-0-0]]
=== What's new in Spring Vault 1.0

* Initial Vault support.
