src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/vault/propertysource.adoc, before:

[[vault.core.propertysupport]]
= Property Sources

Vault can be used in many different ways. One specific use-case is using
Vault to store encrypted properties. Spring Vault supports Vault as property
source to obtain configuration properties using Spring's {spring-framework-docs}core.html#beans-property-source-abstraction[PropertySource abstraction].

NOTE: You can reference properties stored inside Vault in other property sources or use value injection with `@Value(…)`. Special attention is required when bootstrapping beans that require data stored inside of Vault. A javadoc:org.springframework.vault.core.env.VaultPropertySource[] must be initialized at that time to retrieve properties from Vault.

NOTE: Spring Boot/Spring Cloud users can benefit from https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-vault-config[Spring Cloud Vault]'s
configuration integration that initializes various property sources during application startup.

== Registering `VaultPropertySource`

Spring Vault provides a javadoc:org.springframework.vault.core.env.VaultPropertySource[] to be used with Vault to obtain
properties. It uses the nested `data` element to expose properties stored and
encrypted in Vault.

====
[source,java]
----
ConfigurableApplicationContext ctx = new GenericApplicationContext();
MutablePropertySources sources = ctx.getEnvironment().getPropertySources();
sources.addFirst(new VaultPropertySource(vaultTemplate, "secret/my-application"));
----
====

In the code above, javadoc:org.springframework.vault.core.env.VaultPropertySource[] has been added with highest precedence
in the search. If it contains a ´foo` property, it will be detected and returned
ahead of any `foo` property in any other `PropertySource`.
`MutablePropertySources` exposes a number of methods that allow for precise
manipulation of the set of property sources.

== @VaultPropertySource

The `@VaultPropertySource` annotation provides a convenient and declarative
mechanism for adding a `PropertySource` to Spring's `Environment`
to be used in conjunction with `@Configuration` classes.

`@VaultPropertySource` takes a Vault path such as ``secret/my-application``
and exposes the data stored at the node in a ``PropertySource``.
`@VaultPropertySource` supports lease renewal for secrets associated with a lease
(i. e. credentials from the `mysql` backend) and credential rotation upon terminal
lease expiration. Lease renewal is disabled by default.

.Properties stored in Vault
====
[source,json]
----
{
  // …

  "data": {
    "database": {
      "password": ...
    },
    "user.name": ...,
  }

  // …
}
----
====

.Declaring a `@VaultPropertySource`
====
[source,java]
----
@Configuration
@VaultPropertySource("secret/my-application")
public class AppConfig {

    @Autowired Environment env;

    @Bean
    public TestBean testBean() {
        TestBean testBean = new TestBean();
        testBean.setUser(env.getProperty("user.name"));
        testBean.setPassword(env.getProperty("database.password"));
        return testBean;
    }
}
----
====

.Declaring a `@VaultPropertySource` with credential rotation and prefix
====
[source,java]
----
@Configuration
@VaultPropertySource(value = "aws/creds/s3-access",
                     propertyNamePrefix = "aws.",
                     renewal = Renewal.ROTATE)
public class AppConfig {
  // provides aws.access_key and aws.secret_key properties
}
----
====

NOTE: Secrets obtained from `generic` secret backends are associated with a TTL (`refresh_interval`) but not a lease Id. Spring Vault's ``PropertySource`` rotates generic secrets when reaching its TTL.

NOTE: You can use `@VaultPropertySource` to obtain the newest secret version from the versioned Key-Value backend. Make sure to not include the `data/` segment in the path.

Any `${…​}` placeholders present in a `@VaultPropertySource` path are resolved against the set of property sources already registered against the environment, as the following example shows:

.Declaring a `@VaultPropertySource` path using placeholders
====
[source,java]
----
@Configuration
@VaultPropertySource(value = "aws/creds/${my.placeholder:fallback/value}",
                     propertyNamePrefix = "aws.",
                     renewal = Renewal.ROTATE)
public class AppConfig {
}
----
====

Assuming that `my.placeholder` is present in one of the property sources already registered (for example, system properties or environment variables), the placeholder is resolved to the corresponding value.
If not, then `fallback/value` is used as a default.
If no default is specified and a property cannot be resolved, an `IllegalArgumentException` is thrown.

In certain situations, it may not be possible or practical to tightly control
property source ordering when using `@VaultPropertySource` annotations.
For example, if the `@Configuration` classes above were registered via
component-scanning, the ordering is difficult to predict.
In such cases - and if overriding is important - it is recommended that the
user fall back to using the programmatic PropertySource API.
See https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/javadoc-api/org/springframework/core/env/ConfigurableEnvironment.html[`ConfigurableEnvironment`] and
https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/javadoc-api/org/springframework/core/env/MutablePropertySources.html[`MutablePropertySources`] for details.

Commit message:

Propagate failure to detect `MountInfo`.
We now propagate failures to detect the MountInfo to simplify problem analysis when using repositories, the Key-Value API and Property Sources.

Closes gh-929

src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/vault/propertysource.adoc, after:

[[vault.core.propertysupport]]
= Property Sources

Vault can be used in many different ways. One specific use-case is using
Vault to store encrypted properties. Spring Vault supports Vault as property
source to obtain configuration properties using Spring's {spring-framework-docs}core.html#beans-property-source-abstraction[PropertySource abstraction].

NOTE: You can reference properties stored inside Vault in other property sources or use value injection with `@Value(…)`. Special attention is required when bootstrapping beans that require data stored inside of Vault. A javadoc:org.springframework.vault.core.env.VaultPropertySource[] must be initialized at that time to retrieve properties from Vault.

NOTE: Spring Boot/Spring Cloud users can benefit from https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-vault-config[Spring Cloud Vault]'s
configuration integration that initializes various property sources during application startup.

NOTE: Vault determines the mount path through Vault's `sys/internal/ui/mounts/…` endpoint. Make sure that your policy allows accessing that path, otherwise you won't be able to use  Vault Property sources.

== Registering `VaultPropertySource`

Spring Vault provides a javadoc:org.springframework.vault.core.env.VaultPropertySource[] to be used with Vault to obtain
properties. It uses the nested `data` element to expose properties stored and
encrypted in Vault.

====
[source,java]
----
ConfigurableApplicationContext ctx = new GenericApplicationContext();
MutablePropertySources sources = ctx.getEnvironment().getPropertySources();
sources.addFirst(new VaultPropertySource(vaultTemplate, "secret/my-application"));
----
====

In the code above, javadoc:org.springframework.vault.core.env.VaultPropertySource[] has been added with highest precedence
in the search. If it contains a ´foo` property, it will be detected and returned
ahead of any `foo` property in any other `PropertySource`.
`MutablePropertySources` exposes a number of methods that allow for precise
manipulation of the set of property sources.

== @VaultPropertySource

The `@VaultPropertySource` annotation provides a convenient and declarative
mechanism for adding a `PropertySource` to Spring's `Environment`
to be used in conjunction with `@Configuration` classes.

`@VaultPropertySource` takes a Vault path such as ``secret/my-application``
and exposes the data stored at the node in a ``PropertySource``.
`@VaultPropertySource` supports lease renewal for secrets associated with a lease
(i. e. credentials from the `mysql` backend) and credential rotation upon terminal
lease expiration. Lease renewal is disabled by default.

.Properties stored in Vault
====
[source,json]
----
{
  // …

  "data": {
    "database": {
      "password": ...
    },
    "user.name": ...,
  }

  // …
}
----
====

.Declaring a `@VaultPropertySource`
====
[source,java]
----
@Configuration
@VaultPropertySource("secret/my-application")
public class AppConfig {

    @Autowired Environment env;

    @Bean
    public TestBean testBean() {
        TestBean testBean = new TestBean();
        testBean.setUser(env.getProperty("user.name"));
        testBean.setPassword(env.getProperty("database.password"));
        return testBean;
    }
}
----
====

.Declaring a `@VaultPropertySource` with credential rotation and prefix
====
[source,java]
----
@Configuration
@VaultPropertySource(value = "aws/creds/s3-access",
                     propertyNamePrefix = "aws.",
                     renewal = Renewal.ROTATE)
public class AppConfig {
  // provides aws.access_key and aws.secret_key properties
}
----
====

NOTE: Secrets obtained from `generic` secret backends are associated with a TTL (`refresh_interval`) but not a lease Id. Spring Vault's ``PropertySource`` rotates generic secrets when reaching its TTL.

NOTE: You can use `@VaultPropertySource` to obtain the newest secret version from the versioned Key-Value backend. Make sure to not include the `data/` segment in the path.

Any `${…​}` placeholders present in a `@VaultPropertySource` path are resolved against the set of property sources already registered against the environment, as the following example shows:

.Declaring a `@VaultPropertySource` path using placeholders
====
[source,java]
----
@Configuration
@VaultPropertySource(value = "aws/creds/${my.placeholder:fallback/value}",
                     propertyNamePrefix = "aws.",
                     renewal = Renewal.ROTATE)
public class AppConfig {
}
----
====

Assuming that `my.placeholder` is present in one of the property sources already registered (for example, system properties or environment variables), the placeholder is resolved to the corresponding value.
If not, then `fallback/value` is used as a default.
If no default is specified and a property cannot be resolved, an `IllegalArgumentException` is thrown.

In certain situations, it may not be possible or practical to tightly control
property source ordering when using `@VaultPropertySource` annotations.
For example, if the `@Configuration` classes above were registered via
component-scanning, the ordering is difficult to predict.
In such cases - and if overriding is important - it is recommended that the
user fall back to using the programmatic PropertySource API.
See https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/javadoc-api/org/springframework/core/env/ConfigurableEnvironment.html[`ConfigurableEnvironment`] and
https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/javadoc-api/org/springframework/core/env/MutablePropertySources.html[`MutablePropertySources`] for details.
