src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/vault/vault-secret-engines.adoc, before:

[[vault.core.secret-engines]]
= Supporting for Vault's Secret Engines

Spring Vault ships with several extensions to support Vault's various secret engines.

Specifically, Spring Vault ships with extensions for:

* <<vault.core.backends.kv1>>
* <<vault.core.backends.kv2>>
* <<vault.core.backends.pki>>
* <<vault.core.backends.token>>
* Transform (Enterprise Feature)
* <<vault.core.backends.transit>>
* System Backend

You can use all other backends through methods on `VaultTemplate` directly (`VaultTemplate.read(…)`, `VaultTemplate.write(…)`).

[[vault.core.backends.kv1]]
== Key-Value Version 1 ("unversioned secrets")

The `kv` secrets engine is used to store arbitrary secrets within the configured physical storage for Vault.

When running the `kv` secrets engine in a non-versioned way, only the most recently written value for a key is preserved.
The benefits of non-versioned kv is a reduced storage size for each key, since no additional metadata or history is stored.
Additionally, requests going to a backend configured this way are more performant because there are fewer storage calls and no locking for any given request.

Spring Vault ships with a dedicated Key-Value API to encapsulate differences between the individual Key-Value API implementations.
javadoc:org.springframework.vault.core.VaultKeyValueOperations[] follows the Vault CLI design.
That's the primary command line tool for Vault providing commands such as `vault kv get`, `vault kv put` and so on.

You can use this API with both Key-Value engine versions by specifying the version and mount path.
The following example uses the Key-Value version 1:

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$KeyValueV1.java[tags=keyValueApi]
----
====

javadoc:org.springframework.vault.core.VaultKeyValueOperations[] supports all Key-Value operations such as `put`, `get`, `delete`, `list`.

Alternatively, the API can be used through javadoc:org.springframework.vault.core.VaultTemplate[] because of its direct mapping and simple use, as keys and responses map directly to input and output keys.
The following example illustrates writing and reading a secret at `mykey`.
The `kv` secrets engine is mounted at `secret`:

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$KeyValueV1.java[tags=vaultOperations]
----
====

You can find more details about the https://www.vaultproject.io/api-docs/secret/kv/kv-v1[Vault Key-Value version 1 API] in the Vault reference documentation.

[[vault.core.backends.kv2]]
== Key-Value Version 2 ("versioned secrets")

You can run the `kv` secrets engine in one of two versions.
This section explains using version 2. When running version 2 of the `kv` backend a key can retain a configurable number of versions.
You can retrieve the metadata and data of the older versions.
Additionally, you can use check-and-set operations to avoid unintentionally overwriting data.

Similar to <<vault.core.backends.kv1>>, Spring Vault ships with a dedicated Key-Value API to encapsulate differences between the individual Key-Value API implementations.
Spring Vault ships with a dedicated Key-Value API to encapsulate differences between the individual Key-Value API implementations.
`VaultKeyValueOperations` follows the Vault CLI design.
That is the primary command line tool for Vault, providing commands such as `vault kv get`, `vault kv put`, and so on.

You can use this API with both Key-Value engine versions by specifying the version and mount path.
The following example uses Key-Value version 2:

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$KeyValueV2.java[tags=keyValueApi]
----
====

javadoc:org.springframework.vault.core.VaultKeyValueOperations[] supports all Key-Value operations, such as `put`, `get`, `delete`, `list`.

You can also interact with the specifics of the versioned key-value API. This is useful if you want to obtain a specific secret or you need access to the metadata.

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$KeyValueV2.java[tags=versionedApi]
----
<1> Store secrets at `elvis` in that is available under the `secret/` mount.
<2> Storing data in the versioned backend returns metadata such as the version number.
<3> The versioned Key-Value API allows retrieval of specific versions identified by the version number.
<4> Versioned key-value secrets can be mapped into value objects.
<5> When updating versioned secrets using CAS, the input must refer to the previously obtained version.
====

While using the `kv` v2 secrets engine through `VaultTemplate` is possible.
It is not the most convenient approach since the API offers a different approach to context paths and how input/output is represented.
Specifically, interaction with the actual secrets requires wrapping and unwrapping of the data section and introducing a `data/` path segment between the mount and the secrets key.

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$KeyValueV2.java[tags=vaultOperations]
----
====

You can find more details about the https://www.vaultproject.io/api-docs/secret/kv/kv-v2[Vault Key-Value version 2 API] in the Vault reference documentation.

[[vault.core.backends.pki]]
== PKI (Public Key Infrastructure)

The `pki` secrets engine represents a backend for certificates by implementing certificate authority operations.

The PKI secrets engine generates dynamic X.509 certificates.
With this secrets engine, services can get certificates without going through the usual manual process of generating a private key and CSR, submitting to a CA, and waiting for a verification and signing process to complete.
Vault's built-in authentication and authorization mechanisms provide the verification functionality.

Spring Vault supports issuing, signing, revoking certificates, and CRL retrieval through `VaultPkiOperations`.
All other PKI functionality can be used through `VaultOperations`.

The following examples explain briefly the use of how to issue and revoke certificates:

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$PKI.java[tags=pkiApi]
----
<1> Construct a certificate request by using the javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.VaultCertificateRequest[] builder.
<2> Request a certificate from Vault.
Vault acts as certificate authority and responds with a signed X.509 certificate.
The actual response is a javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.CertificateBundle[].
<3> You can obtain generated certificates directly as Java KeyStore that contains public and private keys as well as the issuer certificate. KeyStore has a wide range of uses, which makes this format suitable to configure (for example a HTTP client, a database driver, or an SSL-secured HTTP server).
<4> javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.CertificateBundle[] allows accessing the private key and the public and issuer certificates directly through the Java Cryptography Extension API.
<5> Once a certificate is no longer in use (or it was compromised), you can revoke it through its serial number.
Vault includes the revoked certificate in its CRL.
====

You can find more details about the https://www.vaultproject.io/api-docs/secret/pki[Vault PKI secrets API] in the Vault reference documentation.

[[vault.core.backends.token]]
== Token Authentication Backend

This backend is an authentication backend that does not interact with actual secrets.
Rather, it gives access to access token management.
You can read more about <<vault.authentication.token,Token-based authentication>> in the <<vault.core.authentication, authentication methods chapter>>.

The `token` authentication method is built-in and automatically available at `/auth/token`.
It lets users authenticate using a token, as well to create new tokens, revoke secrets by token, and more.

When any other auth method returns an identity, Vault core invokes the token method to create a new unique token for that identity.

You can also use the token store to bypass any other auth method. You can create tokens directly, as well as perform a variety of other operations on tokens, such as renewal and revocation.

Spring Vault uses this backend to renew and revoke the session tokens supplied by the configured <<vault.core.authentication, authentication method>>.

The following examples show how to request, renew and revoke a Vault token from within your application:

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$Token.java[tags=tokenApi]
----
<1> Create an token by applying role defaults.
<2> Using the builder API, you can define fine-grained settings for the token to request.
Requesting a token returns a `VaultToken`, which is used as value object for Vault tokens.
<3> You can renew tokens through the Token API. Typically, that is done by `SessionManager` to keep track of the Vault session token.
<4> Tokens can be revoked if needed through the Token API. Typically, that is done by `SessionManager` to keep track of the Vault session token.
====

You can find more details about the https://www.vaultproject.io/api-docs/auth/token[Vault Token Auth Method API] in the Vault reference documentation.

[[vault.core.backends.transit]]
== Transit Backend

The transit secrets engine handles cryptographic functions on data in-transit.
Vault does not store the data sent to this secrets engine.
It can also be seen as "cryptography as a service" or "encryption as a service".
The transit secrets engine can also sign and verify data, generate hashes and HMACs of data, and act as a random bytes source.

The primary use case for transit is to encrypt data from applications while still storing that encrypted data in some primary data store.
This relieves the burden of proper encryption and decryption from application developers and pushes the burden onto the operators of Vault.

Spring Vault supports a wide range of Transit operations:

* Key creation
* Key reconfiguration
* Encryption/Decryption/Rewrapping
* HMAC computation
* Signing and signature verification

All operations within `transit` are centered around keys.
The Transit engine supports the versioning of keys and https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/transit[a variety of key types].
Note that the key type may impose a limitation on which operations can used.

The following examples shows how to create a key and how to encrypt and decrypt data:

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$Transit.java[tags=encryptSimple]
----
<1> First, we need a key to begin with.
Each key requires the type to be specified. `aes128-gcm96` supports encryption, decryption, key derivation, and convergent encryption, of which we need encryption and decryption for this example.
<2> Next, we encrypt a `String` that contains the plain text that should be encrypted.
The input `String` uses the default `Charset` to encode the string into its binary representation.
Requesting a token returns a `VaultToken`, which is used as value object for Vault tokens.
The `encrypt` method returns Base64-encoded ciphertext, typically starting with `vault:`.
<3> To decrypt ciphertext into plain text, call the `decrypt` method.
It decrypts the ciphertext and returns a `String` that is decoded using the default charset.
====

The preceeding example uses simple strings for cryptographic operations.
While it is a simple approach, it bears the risk of charset misconfiguration and is not binary-safe.
Binary safety is required when the plain text uses a binary representation for data such as images, compressed data, or binary data structures.

To encrypt and decrypt binary data, use the javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Plaintext[] and javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Ciphertext[] value objects that can hold binary values:

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$Transit.java[tags=encryptPlaintext]
----
<1> Assuming a key `my-aes-key` is already in place, we're encrypting the javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Plaintext[] object.
In return, the `encrypt` method returns a javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Ciphertext[] object.
<2> The javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Ciphertext[] object can be used directly for decryption and returns a javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Plaintext[] object.
====

javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Plaintext[] and javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Ciphertext[] come with a contextual object, javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.VaultTransitContext[].
It is used to supply a nonce value for https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/transit#convergent-encryption[convergent encryption] and for a context value to make use of key derivation.

Transit allows for signing plain text and verifying the signature for a given plain text.
Sign operations require an asymmetric key, typically using Elliptic Curve Cryptography or RSA.

NOTE: Signatures use the public/private key split to ensure authenticity. +
The signer uses its private key to create a signature. Otherwise, anybody would be able to sign messages in your name.
The verifier uses the public key part to verify the signature. The actual signature is typically a hash value. +
 +
Internally, the hash gets computed and encrypted using the private key to create the final signature. The verification decrypts the signature message, computes their own hash for the plain text and compares both hash values to check whether the signature is valid or not.

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$Transit.java[tags=signVerify]
----
<1> Signing requires an asymmetric key. You can use any Elliptic Curve Cryptography or RSA key type. Once the key is created, you have all the prerequisites in place to create a signature.
<2> The signature gets created for a plain text message. The returned javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Signature[] contains an ASCII-safe string that uses Base64 characters.
<3> To verify the signature, the verification requires a javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Signature[] object and the plain text message. As the return value, you get whether the signature was valid or not.
====

You can find more details about the https://www.vaultproject.io/api/secret/transit[Vault Transit Backend] in the Vault reference documentation.

Commit message:

Propagate failure to detect `MountInfo`.
We now propagate failures to detect the MountInfo to simplify problem analysis when using repositories, the Key-Value API and Property Sources.

Closes gh-929

src/main/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/vault/vault-secret-engines.adoc, after:

[[vault.core.secret-engines]]
= Supporting for Vault's Secret Engines

Spring Vault ships with several extensions to support Vault's various secret engines.

Specifically, Spring Vault ships with extensions for:

* <<vault.core.backends.kv1>>
* <<vault.core.backends.kv2>>
* <<vault.core.backends.pki>>
* <<vault.core.backends.token>>
* Transform (Enterprise Feature)
* <<vault.core.backends.transit>>
* System Backend

You can use all other backends through methods on `VaultTemplate` directly (`VaultTemplate.read(…)`, `VaultTemplate.write(…)`).

[[vault.core.backends.kv1]]
== Key-Value Version 1 ("unversioned secrets")

The `kv` secrets engine is used to store arbitrary secrets within the configured physical storage for Vault.

When running the `kv` secrets engine in a non-versioned way, only the most recently written value for a key is preserved.
The benefits of non-versioned kv is a reduced storage size for each key, since no additional metadata or history is stored.
Additionally, requests going to a backend configured this way are more performant because there are fewer storage calls and no locking for any given request.

Spring Vault ships with a dedicated Key-Value API to encapsulate differences between the individual Key-Value API implementations.
javadoc:org.springframework.vault.core.VaultKeyValueOperations[] follows the Vault CLI design.
That's the primary command line tool for Vault providing commands such as `vault kv get`, `vault kv put` and so on.

You can use this API with both Key-Value engine versions by specifying the version and mount path.
The following example uses the Key-Value version 1:

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$KeyValueV1.java[tags=keyValueApi]
----
====

javadoc:org.springframework.vault.core.VaultKeyValueOperations[] supports all Key-Value operations such as `put`, `get`, `delete`, `list`.

Alternatively, the API can be used through javadoc:org.springframework.vault.core.VaultTemplate[] because of its direct mapping and simple use, as keys and responses map directly to input and output keys.
The following example illustrates writing and reading a secret at `mykey`.
The `kv` secrets engine is mounted at `secret`:

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$KeyValueV1.java[tags=vaultOperations]
----
====

You can find more details about the https://www.vaultproject.io/api-docs/secret/kv/kv-v1[Vault Key-Value version 1 API] in the Vault reference documentation.

NOTE: Vault determines the mount path through Vault's `sys/internal/ui/mounts/…` endpoint. Make sure that your policy allows accessing that path, otherwise you won't be able to use the Key-Value API.

[[vault.core.backends.kv2]]
== Key-Value Version 2 ("versioned secrets")

You can run the `kv` secrets engine in one of two versions.
This section explains using version 2. When running version 2 of the `kv` backend a key can retain a configurable number of versions.
You can retrieve the metadata and data of the older versions.
Additionally, you can use check-and-set operations to avoid unintentionally overwriting data.

Similar to <<vault.core.backends.kv1>>, Spring Vault ships with a dedicated Key-Value API to encapsulate differences between the individual Key-Value API implementations.
Spring Vault ships with a dedicated Key-Value API to encapsulate differences between the individual Key-Value API implementations.
`VaultKeyValueOperations` follows the Vault CLI design.
That is the primary command line tool for Vault, providing commands such as `vault kv get`, `vault kv put`, and so on.

You can use this API with both Key-Value engine versions by specifying the version and mount path.
The following example uses Key-Value version 2:

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$KeyValueV2.java[tags=keyValueApi]
----
====

javadoc:org.springframework.vault.core.VaultKeyValueOperations[] supports all Key-Value operations, such as `put`, `get`, `delete`, `list`.

You can also interact with the specifics of the versioned key-value API. This is useful if you want to obtain a specific secret or you need access to the metadata.

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$KeyValueV2.java[tags=versionedApi]
----
<1> Store secrets at `elvis` in that is available under the `secret/` mount.
<2> Storing data in the versioned backend returns metadata such as the version number.
<3> The versioned Key-Value API allows retrieval of specific versions identified by the version number.
<4> Versioned key-value secrets can be mapped into value objects.
<5> When updating versioned secrets using CAS, the input must refer to the previously obtained version.
====

While using the `kv` v2 secrets engine through `VaultTemplate` is possible.
It is not the most convenient approach since the API offers a different approach to context paths and how input/output is represented.
Specifically, interaction with the actual secrets requires wrapping and unwrapping of the data section and introducing a `data/` path segment between the mount and the secrets key.

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$KeyValueV2.java[tags=vaultOperations]
----
====

You can find more details about the https://www.vaultproject.io/api-docs/secret/kv/kv-v2[Vault Key-Value version 2 API] in the Vault reference documentation.

NOTE: Vault determines the mount path through Vault's `sys/internal/ui/mounts/…` endpoint. Make sure that your policy allows accessing that path, otherwise you won't be able to use the Key-Value API.

[[vault.core.backends.pki]]
== PKI (Public Key Infrastructure)

The `pki` secrets engine represents a backend for certificates by implementing certificate authority operations.

The PKI secrets engine generates dynamic X.509 certificates.
With this secrets engine, services can get certificates without going through the usual manual process of generating a private key and CSR, submitting to a CA, and waiting for a verification and signing process to complete.
Vault's built-in authentication and authorization mechanisms provide the verification functionality.

Spring Vault supports issuing, signing, revoking certificates, and CRL retrieval through `VaultPkiOperations`.
All other PKI functionality can be used through `VaultOperations`.

The following examples explain briefly the use of how to issue and revoke certificates:

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$PKI.java[tags=pkiApi]
----
<1> Construct a certificate request by using the javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.VaultCertificateRequest[] builder.
<2> Request a certificate from Vault.
Vault acts as certificate authority and responds with a signed X.509 certificate.
The actual response is a javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.CertificateBundle[].
<3> You can obtain generated certificates directly as Java KeyStore that contains public and private keys as well as the issuer certificate. KeyStore has a wide range of uses, which makes this format suitable to configure (for example a HTTP client, a database driver, or an SSL-secured HTTP server).
<4> javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.CertificateBundle[] allows accessing the private key and the public and issuer certificates directly through the Java Cryptography Extension API.
<5> Once a certificate is no longer in use (or it was compromised), you can revoke it through its serial number.
Vault includes the revoked certificate in its CRL.
====

You can find more details about the https://www.vaultproject.io/api-docs/secret/pki[Vault PKI secrets API] in the Vault reference documentation.

[[vault.core.backends.token]]
== Token Authentication Backend

This backend is an authentication backend that does not interact with actual secrets.
Rather, it gives access to access token management.
You can read more about <<vault.authentication.token,Token-based authentication>> in the <<vault.core.authentication, authentication methods chapter>>.

The `token` authentication method is built-in and automatically available at `/auth/token`.
It lets users authenticate using a token, as well to create new tokens, revoke secrets by token, and more.

When any other auth method returns an identity, Vault core invokes the token method to create a new unique token for that identity.

You can also use the token store to bypass any other auth method. You can create tokens directly, as well as perform a variety of other operations on tokens, such as renewal and revocation.

Spring Vault uses this backend to renew and revoke the session tokens supplied by the configured <<vault.core.authentication, authentication method>>.

The following examples show how to request, renew and revoke a Vault token from within your application:

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$Token.java[tags=tokenApi]
----
<1> Create an token by applying role defaults.
<2> Using the builder API, you can define fine-grained settings for the token to request.
Requesting a token returns a `VaultToken`, which is used as value object for Vault tokens.
<3> You can renew tokens through the Token API. Typically, that is done by `SessionManager` to keep track of the Vault session token.
<4> Tokens can be revoked if needed through the Token API. Typically, that is done by `SessionManager` to keep track of the Vault session token.
====

You can find more details about the https://www.vaultproject.io/api-docs/auth/token[Vault Token Auth Method API] in the Vault reference documentation.

[[vault.core.backends.transit]]
== Transit Backend

The transit secrets engine handles cryptographic functions on data in-transit.
Vault does not store the data sent to this secrets engine.
It can also be seen as "cryptography as a service" or "encryption as a service".
The transit secrets engine can also sign and verify data, generate hashes and HMACs of data, and act as a random bytes source.

The primary use case for transit is to encrypt data from applications while still storing that encrypted data in some primary data store.
This relieves the burden of proper encryption and decryption from application developers and pushes the burden onto the operators of Vault.

Spring Vault supports a wide range of Transit operations:

* Key creation
* Key reconfiguration
* Encryption/Decryption/Rewrapping
* HMAC computation
* Signing and signature verification

All operations within `transit` are centered around keys.
The Transit engine supports the versioning of keys and https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/transit[a variety of key types].
Note that the key type may impose a limitation on which operations can used.

The following examples shows how to create a key and how to encrypt and decrypt data:

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$Transit.java[tags=encryptSimple]
----
<1> First, we need a key to begin with.
Each key requires the type to be specified. `aes128-gcm96` supports encryption, decryption, key derivation, and convergent encryption, of which we need encryption and decryption for this example.
<2> Next, we encrypt a `String` that contains the plain text that should be encrypted.
The input `String` uses the default `Charset` to encode the string into its binary representation.
Requesting a token returns a `VaultToken`, which is used as value object for Vault tokens.
The `encrypt` method returns Base64-encoded ciphertext, typically starting with `vault:`.
<3> To decrypt ciphertext into plain text, call the `decrypt` method.
It decrypts the ciphertext and returns a `String` that is decoded using the default charset.
====

The preceeding example uses simple strings for cryptographic operations.
While it is a simple approach, it bears the risk of charset misconfiguration and is not binary-safe.
Binary safety is required when the plain text uses a binary representation for data such as images, compressed data, or binary data structures.

To encrypt and decrypt binary data, use the javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Plaintext[] and javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Ciphertext[] value objects that can hold binary values:

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$Transit.java[tags=encryptPlaintext]
----
<1> Assuming a key `my-aes-key` is already in place, we're encrypting the javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Plaintext[] object.
In return, the `encrypt` method returns a javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Ciphertext[] object.
<2> The javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Ciphertext[] object can be used directly for decryption and returns a javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Plaintext[] object.
====

javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Plaintext[] and javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Ciphertext[] come with a contextual object, javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.VaultTransitContext[].
It is used to supply a nonce value for https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/transit#convergent-encryption[convergent encryption] and for a context value to make use of key derivation.

Transit allows for signing plain text and verifying the signature for a given plain text.
Sign operations require an asymmetric key, typically using Elliptic Curve Cryptography or RSA.

NOTE: Signatures use the public/private key split to ensure authenticity. +
The signer uses its private key to create a signature. Otherwise, anybody would be able to sign messages in your name.
The verifier uses the public key part to verify the signature. The actual signature is typically a hash value. +
 +
Internally, the hash gets computed and encrypted using the private key to create the final signature. The verification decrypts the signature message, computes their own hash for the plain text and compares both hash values to check whether the signature is valid or not.

====
[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::example$Transit.java[tags=signVerify]
----
<1> Signing requires an asymmetric key. You can use any Elliptic Curve Cryptography or RSA key type. Once the key is created, you have all the prerequisites in place to create a signature.
<2> The signature gets created for a plain text message. The returned javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Signature[] contains an ASCII-safe string that uses Base64 characters.
<3> To verify the signature, the verification requires a javadoc:org.springframework.vault.support.Signature[] object and the plain text message. As the return value, you get whether the signature was valid or not.
====

You can find more details about the https://www.vaultproject.io/api/secret/transit[Vault Transit Backend] in the Vault reference documentation.
