src/main/asciidoc/reference/client-support.adoc, before:

[[vault.core.client.support]]
= Client support

Spring Vault supports various HTTP clients to access Vault's HTTP API. Spring Vault uses
{spring-framework-docs}integration.html#rest-resttemplate[`RestTemplate`] as primary interface accessing Vault.
Dedicated client support originates from <<vault.client-ssl,customized SSL configuration>>
that is scoped only to Spring Vault's client components.

Spring Vault supports following HTTP imperative clients:

* Java's builtin `HttpURLConnection` (default client)
* Apache Http Components
* Netty
* OkHttp 3

Spring Vault's reactive integration supports the following reactive HTTP clients:

* Reactor Netty
* Jetty

Using a specific client requires the according dependency to be available on the classpath
so Spring Vault can use the available client for communicating with Vault.

== Java's builtin `HttpURLConnection`

Java's builtin `HttpURLConnection` is available out-of-the-box without additional
configuration. Using `HttpURLConnection` comes with a limitation regarding SSL configuration.
Spring Vault won't apply <<vault.client-ssl,customized SSL configuration>> as it would
require a deep reconfiguration of the JVM. This configuration would affect all
components relying on the default SSL context. Configuring SSL settings using
`HttpURLConnection` requires you providing these settings as System Properties. See
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/jsse/JSSERefGuide.html#InstallationAndCustomization[Customizing JSSE] for further details.

== External Clients
You can use external clients to access Vault's API. Simply add one of the following
dependencies to your project. You can omit the version number if using
<<dependencies,Spring Vault's Dependency BOM>>


.Apache Http Components Dependency
====
[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.apache.httpcomponents</groupId>
  <artifactId>httpclient</artifactId>
</dependency>
----
====

NOTE: Apache HttpClient's https://hc.apache.org/httpcomponents-client-4.5.x/logging.html[wire logging] can be enabled through logging configuration. Make sure to not accidentally enable wire logging as logs may expose traffic (tokens and secrets) between your application and Vault in plain text.

.Netty Dependency
====
[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.netty</groupId>
  <artifactId>netty-all</artifactId>
</dependency>
----
====

.Square OkHttp 3
====
[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.squareup.okhttp3</groupId>
  <artifactId>okhttp</artifactId>
</dependency>
----
====

.Reactor Netty
====
[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.projectreactor.netty</groupId>
  <artifactId>reactor-netty</artifactId>
</dependency>
----
====

.Jetty
====
[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.eclipse.jetty</groupId>
  <artifactId>jetty-reactive-httpclient</artifactId>
</dependency>
----
====

[[vault.client-ssl]]
== Vault Client SSL configuration

SSL can be configured using `SslConfiguration` by setting various properties.
You can set either `javax.net.ssl.trustStore` to configure
JVM-wide SSL settings or configure `SslConfiguration`
to set SSL settings only for Spring Vault.

====
[source,java]
----

SslConfiguration sslConfiguration = SslConfiguration.create(            <1>
		new FileSystemResource("client-cert.jks"), "changeit".toCharArray(),
		new FileSystemResource("truststore.jks"), "changeit".toCharArray());

SslConfiguration.forTrustStore(new FileSystemResource("keystore.jks"),  <2>
                                      "changeit".toCharArray())

SslConfiguration.forKeyStore(new FileSystemResource("keystore.jks"),    <3>
                                      "changeit".toCharArray())

SslConfiguration.forKeyStore(new FileSystemResource("keystore.jks"),    <4>
                                      "changeit".toCharArray(),
                                      KeyConfiguration.of("key-password".toCharArray(),
                                      "my-key-alias"))
----
<1> Full configuration.
<2> Configuring only trust store settings.
<3> Configuring only key store settings.
<4> Configuring only key store settings with providing a key-configuration.
====

Please note that providing `SslConfiguration` can be only
applied when either Apache Http Components or the OkHttp client
is on your class-path.

Commit message:

Accept PEM-encoded certificates in SslConfiguration.
We now accept PEM-encoded certificates when configuring SSL settings.

KeyStoreConfiguration keystore = KeyStoreConfiguration
        .of(new ClassPathResource("ca.pem")).withStoreType("PEM");
SslConfiguration configuration = SslConfiguration.forTrustStore(keystore);

Closes gh-514.

src/main/asciidoc/reference/client-support.adoc, after:

[[vault.core.client.support]]
= Client support

Spring Vault supports various HTTP clients to access Vault's HTTP API. Spring Vault uses
{spring-framework-docs}integration.html#rest-resttemplate[`RestTemplate`] as primary interface accessing Vault.
Dedicated client support originates from <<vault.client-ssl,customized SSL configuration>>
that is scoped only to Spring Vault's client components.

Spring Vault supports following HTTP imperative clients:

* Java's builtin `HttpURLConnection` (default client)
* Apache Http Components
* Netty
* OkHttp 3

Spring Vault's reactive integration supports the following reactive HTTP clients:

* Reactor Netty
* Jetty

Using a specific client requires the according dependency to be available on the classpath
so Spring Vault can use the available client for communicating with Vault.

== Java's builtin `HttpURLConnection`

Java's builtin `HttpURLConnection` is available out-of-the-box without additional
configuration. Using `HttpURLConnection` comes with a limitation regarding SSL configuration.
Spring Vault won't apply <<vault.client-ssl,customized SSL configuration>> as it would
require a deep reconfiguration of the JVM. This configuration would affect all
components relying on the default SSL context. Configuring SSL settings using
`HttpURLConnection` requires you providing these settings as System Properties. See
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/jsse/JSSERefGuide.html#InstallationAndCustomization[Customizing JSSE] for further details.

== External Clients
You can use external clients to access Vault's API. Simply add one of the following
dependencies to your project. You can omit the version number if using
<<dependencies,Spring Vault's Dependency BOM>>


.Apache Http Components Dependency
====
[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.apache.httpcomponents</groupId>
  <artifactId>httpclient</artifactId>
</dependency>
----
====

NOTE: Apache HttpClient's https://hc.apache.org/httpcomponents-client-4.5.x/logging.html[wire logging] can be enabled through logging configuration. Make sure to not accidentally enable wire logging as logs may expose traffic (tokens and secrets) between your application and Vault in plain text.

.Netty Dependency
====
[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.netty</groupId>
  <artifactId>netty-all</artifactId>
</dependency>
----
====

.Square OkHttp 3
====
[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.squareup.okhttp3</groupId>
  <artifactId>okhttp</artifactId>
</dependency>
----
====

.Reactor Netty
====
[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.projectreactor.netty</groupId>
  <artifactId>reactor-netty</artifactId>
</dependency>
----
====

.Jetty
====
[source, xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.eclipse.jetty</groupId>
  <artifactId>jetty-reactive-httpclient</artifactId>
</dependency>
----
====

[[vault.client-ssl]]
== Vault Client SSL configuration

SSL can be configured using `SslConfiguration` by setting various properties.
You can set either `javax.net.ssl.trustStore` to configure
JVM-wide SSL settings or configure `SslConfiguration`
to set SSL settings only for Spring Vault.

====
[source,java]
----

SslConfiguration sslConfiguration = SslConfiguration.create(            <1>
		new FileSystemResource("client-cert.jks"), "changeit".toCharArray(),
		new FileSystemResource("truststore.jks"), "changeit".toCharArray());

SslConfiguration.forTrustStore(new FileSystemResource("keystore.jks"),  <2>
                                      "changeit".toCharArray())

SslConfiguration.forKeyStore(new FileSystemResource("keystore.jks"),    <3>
                                      "changeit".toCharArray())

SslConfiguration.forKeyStore(new FileSystemResource("keystore.jks"),    <4>
                                      "changeit".toCharArray(),
                                      KeyConfiguration.of("key-password".toCharArray(),
                                      "my-key-alias"))
----
<1> Full configuration.
<2> Configuring only trust store settings.
<3> Configuring only key store settings.
<4> Configuring only key store settings with providing a key-configuration.
====

Please note that providing `SslConfiguration` can be only applied when either Apache Http Components or the OkHttp client is on your class-path.

The SSL configuration supports also PEM-encoded certificates as alternative to a Java Key Store.

====
[source,java]
----
KeyStoreConfiguration keystore = KeyStoreConfiguration
        .of(new ClassPathResource("ca.pem")).withStoreType("PEM");
SslConfiguration configuration = SslConfiguration.forTrustStore(keystore);
----
====

PEM files may contain one or more certificates (blocks of `-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----` and `-----END CERTIFICATE-----`).
Certificates added to the underlying `KeyStore` use the full subject name as alias.
